# CardioDiseasePrediction
  South Asia throughout the years has been the leading region for the most individuals suffering from cardiovascular diseases. South Asia suffers 60% of the world's heart disease patients, with people of South Asian heritage having four times the risk of having heart disease than the average human. Why is this? According to Heart Matters, many South Asian communities are in areas of deprivation so people are often on lower incomes and may have less access to healthier foods. An inquiry and solution of how to let someone in an underprivileged South Asian household know that they have cardiovascular disease would be greatly beneficial. In addition to bringing to their attention that they suffer from cardiovascular disease, if the charge was penniless then a substantial difference could be made. Here's where the idea of a program to take in symptoms of a patient and generate an output of whether or not they suffered from a cardiovascular disease comes in.
Being relatively new to machine learning, I used a well known data structure as the foundation of the program. Decision Trees. The facilitation of the training was done by the ID3 algorithm. What ID3 does is - it takes every possible split on every single node on a decision tree and whichever split has the most information gain that split is chosen. The greatest information gain is resulted from the split that distinguishes best between patients with and without heart disease.The accuracy from a test set resulted in a near 75%. The whole dataset used was - [Cardiovascular Disease data from Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/sulianova/cardiovascular-disease-dataset). Machine learning is very dense yet large at the same time, this gave me some obstacles in programming - some examples include understanding the actual linguistics of the ID3 algorithm and how and why the components work. 


 
